   FFAACCUULLTTYYOOFFEENNGGININEEEERRININGG

    UNIVERSITY OF SRI JAYEWARDENEPURA
     UNIVERSITY OF SRI JAYEWARDENEPURA

SSTTUUDDEENNTTGGUUIIDDEE

22002246
TABLE OF CONTENT

Vice Chancellor's Message                                02

Dean's Message                                           04

University of Sri Jayewardenepura                        06

Faculty of Engineering                                   09

Study Programme                                          15

Departments and the Curriculum                           26

Department of Civil Engineering                          30

Department of Computer Engineering                       39

Department of Electrical and Electronic Engineering      49

Department of Mechanical Engineering                     59

Department of Interdisciplinary Studies                  68

Office of the Dean                                       71

General Information and Facilities                       72

University Student Council, Faculty Union and Societies  77

Student Life                                             89

Contact Information                                      90
                                                     01

PROSPER LIVES THROUGH EDUCATION

Department of Civil Engineering                          30

Department of Computer Engineering                       39

Department of Electrical and Electronic Engineering      49

Department of Mechanical Engineering                     59

Department of Interdisciplinary Studies                  68
                                                                                                   02

MESSAGE FROM THE
VICE-CHANCELLOR

                              Prof. Pathmalal M. Manage

 I am delighted to extend my warmest welcome to the newly enrolled students
 of the Faculty of Engineering, one of the most prestigious faculties in our
 university.
 Since its establishment in 2016, the Faculty of Engineering has constantly
 shown a dedication to achieving high standards, resulting in a reputation for
 creating highly skilled engineers who make major contributions to society. The
 university takes pride in the exceptional accomplishments and commitment
 demonstrated by both the faculty and its students in maintaining the
 university's academic standards.
 The Faculty of Engineering is indeed endowed with exceptional resources,
 encompassing dedicated staff, modern lab facilities, and a well-equipped
 library, among other valuable
 assets. The Faculty of Engineering takes pride in the presence of highly
 qualified academic and non-academic staff who relentlessly work towards
 achieving the university's major goals. Their efforts extend to providing
 students with a supportive learning environment, ensuring quality education,
 and addressing individual needs.
                                                                                                 03

As the Vice-Chancellor of the University of Sri Jayewardenepura, I make a
passionate welcome to all undergraduate students enrolled in 2024. I strongly
encourage you to take full advantage of the resources of the Faculty of
Engineering, allowing them to accelerate your study and skill development to
new heights. By doing so, you not only advance your development but also
bring honor and distinction to our prestigious university.

I wish you all the best of luck in your academic activities at the University of Sri
Jayewardenepura. I hope that each student will grow into a world-class
engineering professional. Your dedication to academic achievement and skill
development will undoubtedly benefit the prosperity and advancement of our
university and our nation.

I wish you all a successful academic year.

Senior Professor M. M. Pathmalal
Vice - Chancellor
University of Sri Jayewardenepura
                                                                                                  04

MESSAGE FROM THE
DEAN

                              Dr. Nishan Dharmaweera

I am delighted to extend a warm welcome to all of you as you embark on your
journey in the Faculty of Engineering at the University of Sri Jayewardenepura.
It gives us great pleasure to inform you that our faculty, which was established
in January 2016 as the most recent addition to
the engineering faculties of state-owned universities in Sri Lanka, has
effectively produced three batches of graduates who are exceptionally
competent and high-quality engineers.
Our primary goal at the university is to produce engineers who are
knowledgeable, confident, and innovative, making meaningful contributions
to society. The Faculty of Engineering has been recognized not only locally but
also internationally for its exceptional curriculum.
I am proud to lead a faculty that encompasses five distinguished departments:
civil engineering, computer engineering, electrical and electronics
engineering, mechanical engineering, and Interdisciplinary studies. The
steadfast assistance and direction offered by these departments are crucial in
influencing the bright prospects of our students and upholding the integrity of
our educational framework. Our professional academic staff is committed to
guiding you through your academic path, not just strengthening your
technical skills but also cultivating your academic and personal integrity.
                                                                                                 05

We hope you can succeed in our innovative and approachable teaching and
learning environment, which offers a variety of educational facilities,
extracurricular activities, and culturally entrenched values.

As Dean of the Faculty of Engineering, I wish each of you a rewarding and
meaningful experience. we hope you will contribute significantly to our
talented student body. On behalf of the academic, academic support, and non-
academic personnel, I wish you a successful and fulfilling tenure at our Faculty.
We are excited to guide and support you in attaining your goals.
May your time here be filled with growth, knowledge gain, and skill
development, paving the path for a great and successful future.

Dr. Nishan Dharmaweera
Dean of the Faculty of Engineering
University of Sri Jayewardenepura
                                                                                                06

UNIVERSITY OF
SRI JAYEWARDENEPURA

History

The University of Sri Jayewardenepura is one of the oldest Universities in Sri
Lanka. The origin of the University of Sri Jayewardenepura dates back to 1873,
when Ven. Hikkaduwe Sri Sumangala Nayaka Thero laid the foundation stone
for the Vidyodaya (meaning "awakening of knowledge") Pirivena. Vidyodaya
Pirivena was granted University status in 1959, and the name was changed to
`Vidyodaya University of Ceylon'. In 1961, the University was relocated from
Maligakanda to a beautiful setting at Gangodawila, Nugegoda, in the outskirts
of Colombo. Later, in 1978, the name of this higher educational institution was
changed to `University of Sri Jayewardenepura' and was granted an
autonomous University status.
                                                                                                  07

University Today

The University of Sri Jayewardenepura derives its authority from the Universities
Act No. 16 of 1978 as amended. As one of the Universities established under the
University Grants Commission, the University is empowered to confer degrees
on persons who have duly registered to follow a programme of study and have
satisfactorily completed all the requirements in conformity with the By-laws of
the University as applicable to the Faculty of Engineering.

Vice Chancellor is the Chief Executive and Principal Academic Officer of the
University while the Deans of Faculties, Registrar, Librarian and the Bursar are
recognized as Officers of the University. The Council, Senate and Faculty Board
of each Faculty are recognized as authorities of the University. Council is the
governing authority of the University whereas the Senate is the highest
academic body. Faculty Boards are responsible for conducting study
programmes under the directions of the Senate.

The University of Sri Jayewardenepura consists of eleven Faculties, namely;
Faculty of Humanities and Social Sciences, Faculty of Applied Sciences, Faculty
of Management Studies and Commerce, Faculty of Medical Sciences, Faculty of
Graduate Studies, Faculty of Technology, Faculty of Engineering, Faculty of
Allied Health Sciences, Faculty of Dental Sciences, Faculty of Computing and
Faculty of Aquatic Bio-resources. The University commits itself for the pursuit
and transmission of knowledge through teaching, scholarship, and research. It
aims to serve the community through producing well-rounded graduates with
creativity, freedom of intellectual thought and expression, and professional
growth through nourishing an environment of equal opportunity and fairness.
In addition, University of Sri Jayewardenepura plays an active role in conducting
research in areas of national relevance such as Dengue, Cancer, Kidney and
Water quality.

All these activities are accomplished with the dedication of academic members
and the support extended by the administrative divisions such as academic
and non-academic establishment, general administration, finance,
examinations, and student welfare.
08
                                                                                                  09

FACULTY OF ENGINEERING

The Faculty of Engineering, University of Sri Jayewardenepura, is the latest
addition to the faculties of engineering in the state universities coming under
the purview of the university grants commission. Established in January 2016, it
consists of five departments of study with a mandate to offer study
programmes in engineering, and in particular an undergraduate study
programme in engineering leading to the award of the degree of the `Bachelor
of the Science of Engineering'.

The government in its budget speeches of 2014 and 2015, made provisions to
establish a faculty of engineering and technology in the university of Sri
Jayewardenepura. This is in-line with the national requirement for professionals
to drive the country towards a knowledge-based economy. Following the
government initiative, the then vice chancellor of the university, senior
professor Sampath Amaratunge appointed an advisory board consisting of
renowned personalities to proceed with modalities in establishing the new
faculty. This advisory board comprised of professors, D.A.Tantrigoda,
M.M.Karunanayake, A.M.Abeysekara, K.Deheragoda, P.B.Mandawala and the
Emeritus professor N.R.Arthenayake who was a former vice chancellor of the
open university of Sri Lanka (OUSL) ,former dean of the faculty of engineering
technology of the OUSL and a senior professor in mechanical engineering was
appointed as the lead consultant to shoulder the task of establishing the faculty
of engineering and technology.
                                                                                                  10

After extensive deliberations with regard to the differences in Technology and
Engineering streams as well as the difference in the admission criteria
applicable to respective study programmes together with prevailing
practicalities, then Vice Chancellor proposed to establish two new Faculties,
namely, Faculty of Engineering and Faculty of Technology. This decision was
approved by the Senate and the Council of the University. Four Senior
Lecturers, namely Dr.S.A.A.M. Subasinghe, Dr.C.de Alwis, Dr. M. Mohomed, and
Dr. K.M.C. Konthesingha, were recruited to the proposed Faculty of
Engineering to be engaged in the task of developing an Engineering Degree
Programme, under the guidance of Professor Arthenayake.

A Consultative Committee in Engineering (CCE) consisting of eminent
academics in Engineering Education in the country, together with the
representation of the Institution of Engineers, Sri Lanka (IESL) were appointed
to spearhead the development of the Engineering Degree Programme.
Leading industrialists in the country were consulted to incorporate their inputs
to the curriculum development process and the delivery of the Degree
programme. This paved the path for the new Faculty of Engineering to build
enduring relationships with the industry.

Together with the inputs from the CCE and the Industry, a proposal was
formulated to be formally submitted to the University Grants Commission. The
University Grants Commission approved the proposal to establish a new
Faculty of Engineering at the University of Sri Jayewardenepura in December
2015. The new Faculty along with its Departments of Study, was gazetted by
the government in January 2016.
                                                                                                   11

New Faculty Premises

The University of Sri Jayewardenepura acquired a 10-acre land in Mattegoda,
Kottawa, for the establishment of the Faculty of Engineering on the 31st of July
2017. The acquired land is located very close to the buzzing and growing city
center of Kottawa, which makes it easily accessible through the Southern
Highway as well as a multitude of road networks. The land allocation was
supported through the 2019 National Budget, with an investment of Rs. 1
billion. This was a momentous occasion for the faculty, which is the youngest
state-owned Engineering Faculty in Sri Lanka.
                                                                                                   12

Since the groundbreaking ceremony of the proposed Faculty of Engineering
building complex was held on 31st December 2020, a major milestone in the
faculty's journey is its relocation to a state-of-the-art permanent complex in
Kottawa (Mattegoda). The new complex has been designed to accommodate
up to 1,600 students and to provide an exceptional learning environment that
supports academic excellence, innovation, and student well-being.

Equipped with cutting-edge technology and advanced infrastructure, the new
faculty complex features modern modular laboratories that facilitate hands-on
experimentation, innovation, and research. A fully equipped 800-seat
auditorium serves as a central venue for academic events, conferences,
ceremonies, and student showcases. To ensure student and staff well-being
and convenience, the premises also include a spacious food court, recreational
facilities such as a badminton court and gymnasium, and a dedicated daycare
centre, enhancing accessibility and inclusivity for staff and students with
families.
                                                                                                   13

Beyond the Classroom: A Holistic Campus Life

What sets this facility apart, however, is its attention to the human element of
engineering. Recognizing that innovation requires well-being, the designers
have integrated features rarely seen in state university faculties.

 Details from the faculty's profile reveal a campus built for life, not just study.
The new Engineering Faculty Library has been transformed into a vibrant hub
with self-check kiosks and security gates, designed to make resources instantly
accessible. It offers spacious reading areas and relaxing leisure spaces, a
deliberate move to foster collaborative learning over rote memorization.

The student experience is further bolstered by dedicated recreational facilities,
an E-learning and language center, a career guidance unit, and an industrial
training unit. The complex includes an indoor sports complex and a fully
equipped gymnasium, ensuring students can balance the rigors of
engineering with physical health. An open-air amphitheater provides a space
for cultural events, while a modern food court and multiple canteens offer
high-quality amenities for social interaction. The addition of a dedicated
daycare center, alongside a health center and pharmacy, underscores the
faculty's commitment to supporting the diverse needs of its community,
particularly those with families. Accessibility is a key priority, with the premises
offering substantial parking capacity to ensure hassle-free access for the
university community.
                                          14

The four Departments are responsible for delivery of the Study Programme in
four specialisations in engineering as "Civil Engineering", "Computer
Engineering", "Electrical and Electronic Engineering", and "Mechanical
Engineering". The Department of Interdisciplinary Studies functions as a
service department and is responsible for the delivery of courses in
Engineering Mathematics, Management, and Humanities.

The Departments of Study in the Faculty and their abbreviations are as follows:

Civil Engineering          CE

Computer Engineering       CO

Electrical and Electronic Engineering EE

Mechanical Engineering     ME

Interdisciplinary Studies  IS

Inaugural batch of students of the Faculty was enrolled in November 2016,
which was followed by eight subsequent batches from 2017 to 2024.
                                                                            15

Research and Innovation

The Faculty of Engineering is deeply committed to research, innovation, and
industry collaboration. With a clear vision of becoming a Future Engineering
Research Hub, the faculty fosters practice-oriented research and encourages
students to develop real-world solutions to contemporary engineering and
societal challenges. Under the guidance of a dedicated and dynamic academic
staff, students actively participate in national and international competitions
and have already secured multiple awards, an impressive achievement for the
youngest state-owned engineering faculty in the country.

The Faculty is initiating collaborations with industry to produce young
Engineers to fit the contemporary needs of the Engineering sector of the
country, which is essential for continuing national development. Research
Committee of the Faculty of Engineering (RCFE) has been established to
facilitate research and innovation activities. The faculty currently has students
following Mphil and PhD degrees related to the specialisations of all four
academic departments.

Quality Assurance

The Faculty actively takes measures to improve the academic standards to
align with international quality standards. This process is facilitated by the
Internal Quality Assurance Cell (IQAC) of the Faculty.
IQAC is responsible for carrying out and coordinating quality assurance
activities of the Faculty in line with national and international standards for an
engineering degree program, namely the Sri Lanka Qualification Framework
(SLQF) and the Washington Accord of the International Engineering Alliance,
for which the IESL is the authorized organization for the accreditation.

IESL Recognition

All the degree programs offered by the Faculty of Engineering, University of Sri
Jayewardenepura have obtained the IESL recognition; Civil Engineering and
Mechanical Engineering departments are fully recognized, and working
towards obtaining the IESL accreditation.
                                                                                                 16

STUDY PROGRAM

Faculty of Engineering offers a study programme leading to the award of the
degree of the `Bachelor of the Science of Engineering Honours', in four
specialisations in Engineering.

The mission of the study programme is to produce engineering graduates who
have the knowledge and the aspiration to become competent engineers in a
wide range of emerging engineering disciplines within the conventional
engineering spheres, by offering a curriculum with flexibility to meet the
current and emerging needs of the country and the profession, as acceptable
to the global community.

             Graduate Profile

    The engineering graduates of the Faculty of Engineering would be able to;
               Investigate, identify, formulate and analyse complex engineering
               problems with creativity and innovative approach,

               Apply the principles of engineering, science, technology and mathematics
               in the design of systems, processes and procedures as solutions to
               complex engineering problems, along with applying intellectual and life
               skills within realistic constraints (economic, environmental, social, political,
               ethical, health and safety) and sustainability through creative and
               innovative approach,

               Recognize the importance of working as an individual, in teams as well as
               in multi-disciplinary settings, depending on specific situations in solving
               complex engineering problems and act accordingly, while maintaining
               high ethical standards in the practice of engineering,

               Engage in lifelong learning for continuous professional development and
               uphold the advancement of engineering with research and scholarship.
                                                                                                   17

Program outcomes

     Apply knowledge of mathematics, basic sciences and engineering
     fundamentals to the analysis of complex engineering problems.
     Identify, formulate, research literature, conduct investigations and solve
     complex engineering problems to provide valid conclusions.
     Design systems, components or processes that meet specified needs.
     Conduct investigations of complex problems using research based
     knowledge and research methods.
     Create, select and apply appropriate techniques, resources, and modern
     engineering and IT tools to complex engineering activities.
     Assess societal, health, safety, legal, cultural and environmental issues
     related to professional engineering solutions.
     Demonstrate broad knowledge of sustainable development concepts and
     practices required for dealing with contemporary issues related to
     professional engineering practice.
     Demonstrate broad knowledge of ethical responsibilities and professional
     standards.
     Demonstrate ability to function effectively as an individual and in
     multidisciplinary and multi cultural teams, with the capacity to be a leader
     or manager as well as an effective team member.
     Communicate effectively on complex engineering activities with the
     engineering community and with society at large, such as being able to
     comprehend and write effective reports and design documentation, make
     effective presentations, and give and receive clear instructions.
     Demonstrate broad knowledge of management and business practices,
     including financial management, risk and change management.
     Engage in independent and lifelong learning in the broad context of
     technological change.
                              18

Terminology

The following terminology are in frequent use within the Study Programme.
Students are requested to be familiar with them.

In addition, please note that this section is intended to provide with a brief
understanding of the important terminology only. For comprehensive
understanding of the information provided, students are advised to refer to
relevant By-Laws, Rules and Regulations of University of Sri Jayewardenepura.

Academic Year

An Academic Year comprises of two teaching semesters followed by a period
allocated for vacation, industrial training and any other academic activities, as
applicable to the Faculty of Engineering. Academic Year does not necessarily
coincide with the normal calendar year. The Programme of Study spans over
four Academic Years or eight Semesters.

Semester

A Semester consists of 20 weeks including time allocated for teaching,
examinations as well as mid-semester and end-semester vacations.

Course

A `Course' is the basic teaching/learning unit (equivalent of a `Subject') and
includes lectures and other academic activities.

Course Code

It is a unique combination of alpha-numeric characters that would identify a
particular Course. Courses are coded using the Academic Year in order to
enable the Faculty to offer a particular Course in either of the two Semesters in
the given Academic Year. Information can be derived from the code of a
Course as described by the example below.

ME1301 Engineering Mechanics

First two characters:  Abbreviation of the Department of Study responsible for
                       administering the Course [Department of Mechanical
Third character:       Engineering]
Fourth character:
Last two characters:   Academic Year [First Academic Year]
                       Academic Credits [Three Academic Credits]
                       Serial Number of the Course
                                          19

First Year Common Curriculum

All students will follow a Common Curriculum during the first Academic Year
(first and second Semesters) of study.

Workload of a Course

Workload of a Course is expressed in terms of `Hours/Week' and presented as
Lectures, Practical Work, Tutorials, etc.

Academic Credits

Academic Credits (AC) is a measure of the academic workload of a `Course'.
Computation of Academic Credits for a Course is based on "Active Hours
(AH)", which is defined according to the requirements stated in the
Accreditation Manual of the IESL.

1 hour of lectures      = 1.0 AH

1 hour of lab work      = 0.5 AH

1 hour of tutorials     = 0.5 AH

1 hour of design or field work = 0.5 AH

        NUMBER OF ACTIVE HOURS
AC =

                             14

For activities in which contact hours cannot be properly identified, 1 AC is
defined as follows (without considering AH).

1 week of project work            = 1 AC

2 weeks of work camps             = 1 AC

4 weeks of industrial training. = 1 AC

Continuous Assessment

Continuous Assessment(CA) has been introduced for every Course in order to
maintain the motivation in the learning process as well as to guide the student
towards achieving the learning outcomes. This consists of components such as
mid semester examinations, practical work, fieldwork, assignments, quizzes,
and mini projects, which evaluate the performance of a student throughout the
semester. Components of CA vary from Course to Course depending on the
nature of the Course. The aggregate mark derived from different components
of CA is referred to as the Continuous Assessment Mark (CA Mark).

End of Semester Examination

End of Semester Examination (ESE) is the final assessment component of a
Course , which is conducted at the end of each semester.
                                                                                                  20

Overall Assessment Mark

Overall Assessment Mark (OA Mark) is computed by combining both the CA
Mark and the ESE Mark according to a pre-defined relationship, which may
differ from Course to Course. The OA Mark determines the academic standing
of the student in the Course.

Compulsory Course Requirements

Compulsory Course Requirements (CCR), if any, need to be satisfied in order to
sit the ESE of the Course. These requirements may include successfully
completing the prescribed CA components, attendance at lectures, etc. This
information will be made available to the students prior to the commencement
of academic activities.

Re-sitting the ESE of a Course

A student is required to re-sit the ESE without following the Course in full if,
    a. CA Mark is above the pass mark, and
    b. OA Mark is below the pass mark.

In such cases, the CA Mark may be brought forward while the best grade
obtainable by the student is limited to `C'.

Repeating a Course

A student has to repeat a Course if,
   a. both the CA Mark and the OA Mark are below the pass mark, or
   b. CCR is not satisfied, hence not permitted to sit the ESE.

In this case, the student has to follow the Course in full. This implies that the
student must satisfy the CCR and successfully complete the CA Component
and the ESE. The best grade obtainable by repeating a Course is limited to `C'.

Academic Concession

A student is permitted to postpone academic activities of a Course for a valid
reason, subject to the approval of the Faculty Board and the Senate. Such
permission, if granted, is known as an Academic Concession. A student who has
been granted an Academic Concession is required to fulfil the requirements of
the Course, as applicable, in the subsequent academic year.

Learning Management System

A Learning Management System (LMS) is a software application used to
facilitate e-learning in the delivery of the Courses.
                                                                                                    1271

Fields of Specialization

Selection of students to one of the four fields of specialization will take place at
the end of the second semester. The selection process is strictly based on the
preference and performance of the students during the first two semesters.

Minor

A student has the option to claim for a `Minor' relevant to his field of
specialization after successfully completing an approved combination of
Courses. Students will be made aware of such Courses in advance. Minors on
offer include emerging fields of Engineering such as `Biomedical Engineering',
`Building Services Engineering', `Environmental Engineering', `Mechatronics
Engineering' and `Data Management', and may vary from time to time, as
determined by the Faculty Board.

Industrial Training

Industrial Training, which is compulsory, is an integral component of the
degree programme. The total duration of training is not less than twenty four
weeks to comply with accreditation requirements of the IESL. At present, the
training is implemented after the conclusion of the ESE of Semester 6.
                                                                      22

Framework of the Study Program

 The upward mobility of a student after gaining admission to the Faculty is
 depicted in the following diagram.

                         Graduation

Year 4   SEMESTER 8      Continue Core Course of the
Year 3  (16 AC - 23 AC)  Specialization with common
Year 2                   Complimentary Courses
Year 1   SEMESTER 7      Offer Elective Courses leading to sub
        (16 AC - 23 AC)  areas of Specialization (Minor)
                         Undertake a major Engineering/Research
                         Project in the Specialization

                         Industrial training*

         SEMESTER 6      Continue Core Courses of the
        (16 AC - 23 AC)  Specialization with common
                         Complimentary Courses
         SEMESTER 5      Offer Elective Courses leading to sub
        (16 AC - 23 AC)  areas of Specialization (Minor)
                         Preparation of students to undergo
                         Industrial Training

         SEMESTER 4      Follow Core Courses of the Selected
        (16 AC - 23 AC)  Specialization with common
                         Complimentary Courses
         SEMESTER 3      Obtain an understanding regarding the
        (16 AC - 23 AC)  available sub areas of specialization
                         (Minor)

        Selection of Field of Specialisation

        SEMESTER 2       Follow preliminary courses in Engineering,
            (18 AC)      with complementary courses, especially in
                         English Communication and Presentation
        SEMESTER 1       Skills
            (18 AC)
                         Gain a basic knowledge in Engineering and
                         prepare to select a field of specialization

                         *Industrial training period of 24 weeks
                                                                                                    23

   Enrolment for Courses

  Each student is required to enrol for all Compulsory, Elective and Optional
  Courses he/she intends to follow, prior to the commencement of a given
  Semester. The student has the option to `Add' or `Drop' elective and optional
  Courses within a period of 14 days from the beginning of the semester.
  Elective Courses should be selected as stipulated by the Faculty Board. In the
  selection of Courses, the students are required to ensure that he/she has
  fulfilled the necessary prerequisite requirements to enroll for a Course.

National and International Standards

 The curriculum of the Study Programme meets both national and
 international standards for engineering education.
 Nationally, the Curriculum has been drawn-up in keeping with the
 requirements of the Sri Lanka Qualification Framework (SLQF) and the IESL,
 which is the apex body for the Engineering Profession in Sri Lanka. In
 addition, the curriculum has been designed in compliance with the
 international standard for an Engineering Degree Programme, namely the
 Washington Accord of the International Engineering Alliance.

  Assessment Criteria

  Assessment of a Course

  Assessment in respect of each Course consists of CA and ESE. Contribution
  from various CA components to the final CA mark as well as the contribution
  to the final grade from CA and ESE may vary from Course to Course. This
  information will be made available to the students prior to the
  commencement of academic activities.

  Requirements to sit the End of Semester Examination

  In order for a student to sit the ESE in a Course, he/she should have satisfied
  the Compulsory Course Requirements (CCR) in that Course.

  Grading the Performance in a Course

  Grade assigned to a student for a Course is based on the Overall Assessment
  Mark. This information together with relevant Grade Point Values (GPV) are as
  given in the table below.
                                                                                      24

Grade   Grade Point                             Implication
         Value(GPV)                             Outstanding
  A+
   A          4.00                                 Excellent
   A-         4.00
  B+           3.70                                  Good
   B           3.30
   B-          3.00                              Satisfactory
  C+           2.70                 Referred and Re-sit the ESE
   C           2.30
   R           2.00                   Failed and Repeat Course
   F                            Resume academic activities in the
       Not Applicable
   L                                 subsequent Academic year

Any grade `C' and above (GPV  2.0) is considered as a Pass grade.
Student Re- sitting ESE or repeating a course cannot secure a grade greater than 'C'

Grade Point Average (GPA)

A student's Grade Point Average (GPA) is computed considering the GPVs of
all the Courses categorised as `Contributing to GPA'.

GPA =   {(ACADEMIC CREDITS OF THE COURSE) X (GPV OF THE COURSE)}
                           (ACADEMIC CREDITS OF THE COURSE )

Semester Grade Point Average    SGPA calculated considering all Courses, marked as
(SGPA):                         `Contributing to GPA', followed by a student during a
                                given semester.

Cumulative Grade Point Average  GPA calculated considering all Courses, marked as
(CGPA):                         `Contributing to GPA', followed by a student up to a
                                given Academic Semester.

Overall Grade Point Average     OGPA is also referred to as `GPA', and is calculated
(OGPA):                         considering all Courses, marked as `Contributing to
                                GPA', followed by a student during the entire degree
                                programme. GPA will be used in deciding the award of
                                a `Pass' degree and the `Class Honors', as applicable.

Progression Requirement

As stipulated in the By Law with the amendments
                                                                                                    25

Dean's List

 A student who achieves an SGPA of 3.80 or higher, after successfully
 completing all Courses prescribed for the purpose of determining the Dean's
 list for a semester and have no act of indiscipline committed by him, will be
 recommended by the Board of Examiners to be included in the Dean's List.
 Such an achievement will be recorded in the Student's Academic Transcript.

Graduation Requirements

 Requirement for the Award of the Degree

 In order for the award of the degree of the Bachelor of the Science of
 Engineering,
 a student has to fulfil the following requirements.

    1.Obtained pass grades for the Faculty approved combination of Courses
      accounting for a minimum total of 144 Academic Credits, and

   2. Successfully completed Industrial Training Course accounting for 6
      Academic Credits, and

   3. Satisfied the above requirements within a period of not more than eight
      academic years.

 Requirement for Award of Class Honours

 A student will be awarded the degree with Pass or Class Honours according
 to Grade Point Average as given below.

 3.00 > GPA  2.00 Pass
 3.30 > GPA  3.00 Second Class Honours (Lower Division)
 3.70 > GPA  3.30 Second Class Honours (Upper Division)
 GPA  3.70 First Class Honours

 However, a student is entitled for the award of Class Honours only if he/she
 has successfully completed the above requirements within the minimum
 stipulated time of five Academic Years.

 Faculty approved Course combinations are given in the `Departments and the Curriculum' section.
                                                                                                 26

 Academic Awards

Faculty Awards
     Most Venerable Balangoda Ananda Maitreya Gold Medal for the Most
     Outstanding Graduand of the Faculty of Engineering awarded to the best
     performing student of Bachelor of the Science of Engineering Honours Degree
     program.

Qualification Criteria
In order to qualify for the gold medal, the graduate should satisfy the below
criteria,

     Successfully completed the Degree Program within four academic years.
     Has obtained an Overall Grade Point Average of 3.80 or above.
     Has not repeated in any of the Compulsory and Elective courses.
     Has no disciplinary action against the student.

Selection Criteria
   1.The student with the highest OGPA who has fulfilled the above qualification
     criteria will be selected as the awardee.
  2.If there are multiple qualifying candidates with same OGPA, the candidate
     with highest number of `Outstanding' grades (A+), will be selected as the
     awardee.
  3.If there are multiple qualifying candidates with same OGPA, and a same
     number of `Outstanding' grades (A+), the candidate who has the highest
     average mark for all compulsory and elective courses would be selected as the
     awardee.

Departmental Awards
     Gold Medal for Civil Engineering endowed by the well-wishing academics of
     the department and awarded to the most outstanding Graduand of the
     Department of Civil Engineering.
     Gold Medal for Computer Engineering endowed by the well-wishing
     academics of the department and awarded to the Best Graduand of the
     Department of Computer Engineering.
     Gold Medal for Electrical & Electronic Engineering endowed by the well-
     wishing academics of the department and awarded to the Best Graduand in
     the Department of Electrical & Electronic Engineering.
     Gold Medal for Mechanical Engineering endowed by Emeritus Professor
     Ranjith Arthanayake and awarded to the most outstanding Graduand of the
     Department of Mechanical Engineering.
     Gold Medal by the Department of Interdisciplinary Studies will be awarded
     to the engineering Graduand who successfully completes the Bachelor of the
     Science of Engineering Honours degree with a First Class or a Second Class
     (Upper Division) pass with the most outstanding performance in courses
     offered by the Department of Interdisciplinary Studies at the Faculty of
     Engineering, University of Sri Jayewardenepura.

                                                           *For more details about Departmental Awards refer to page 86
                                                                                                  27

DEPARTMENTS AND
CURRICULUMS

With the aim of producing knowledgeable, competent, confident, and
innovative engineering graduates, the curriculum offered at the Faculty of
Engineering of the University of Sri Jayewardenepura has been carefully
designed by distinguished academics and industry partners to comply with
the international standard for engineering programmes, namely the
Washington Accord of the International Engineering Alliance.

During the first year of the degree programme, every student should follow a
common curriculum to acquire basic knowledge in engineering and be
prepared to select a suitable field of specialization at the end of the first
semester. In the subsequent semesters, students should follow compulsory
courses of the selected specialization.

Additionally, the students continue to follow courses in Mathematics, English,
and complementary interdisciplinary study areas, and will undergo Industrial
Training that aligns with their specialized field of study. Students will also have
the opportunity to obtain a minor within their specialized stream by taking
elective courses in respective streams in the third and fourth years of the
degree programme. Further, in the fourth year (the final two semesters),
students will undertake a major engineering/research project in their field of
specialization.
                                                                     28

First Year Common Curriculum

The common curriculum consists of preliminary courses in Engineering,
Mathematics, History, and English communication and presentation skills.

                                      Semester 1

Course                         Title      Credit   Category     Contributing
 Code   Properties of Materials           Value   Compulsory        to GPA

CE1201                                        2                        Yes

CO1201 Introduction to Computer Systems           2 Compulsory  Yes

EE1201 Electricity                                2 Compulsory  Yes

ME1301 Engineering Mechanics                      3 Compulsory  Yes

ME1202 Introduction to Thermodynamics             2 Compulsory  Yes

IS1301 Engineering Mathematics I                  3 Compulsory  Yes

IS1151 English for Communication                  1 Compulsory  No

IS1171 History of Science and Technology          1 Compulsory  No

IS1281 Engineering Measurement                    2 Compulsory  Yes

                                      Semester 2

Course                        Title       Credit   Category     Contributing
 Code   Introduction to Fluid Mechanics   Value   Compulsory        to GPA

CE1202                                        2                        Yes

CO1302 Programming for Engineers                  3 Compulsory  Yes

EE1302 Electronics                                3 Compulsory  Yes

ME1303 Basic Manufacturing Processes              3 Compulsory  Yes

ME1304 Engineering Drawing                        3 Compulsory  Yes

IS1302 Engineering Mathematics II                 3 Compulsory  Yes

IS1152 Presentation Skills in English             1 Compulsory  No
                                                                                                    2925

   At the end of the first semester, selection of students to the four fields of
   specialization will take place. The selection process is strictly based on the
   preference and performance of the students during the first semester.

   The following four fields of specialization are offered by the respective
   departments.

                       Civil Engineering
                       Computer Engineering
                       Electrical and Electronic Engineering
                       Mechanical Engineering

Course Selection in Subsequent Years

     Once a student has been assigned a field of specialization by the Faculty,
     he/she is required to take all compulsory courses as stated in the curriculum of
     the relevant department.
     In addition, the student is required to take elective courses from each basket of
     Elective Courses, such that the minimum stipulated credit requirement is
     satisfied.
     Elective Courses on offer may vary from time to time, as determined by the
     Faculty Board.
     Optional Courses taken by a student will be indicated in the academic
     transcript upon request.
                                                                                                  31

DEPARTMENT OF

CIVIL ENGINEERING

Civil Engineering specializes in a broad spectrum of engineering aspects,
including envisioning, planning, designing and construction of buildings,
highways and bridges, reservoirs, dams and irrigation schemes, power houses
and transmission systems, water supply and sewerage schemes, tunnels and
underground structures, and so on. The graduates can choose from a wide
range of opportunities in industry and consulting practices as well as in
research and development, which has both local and global significance. They
also would have the option of pursuing an academic career combined with
research, innovation, and development work among local and international
research communities.

Amongst its many courses, the Department of Civil Engineering offers subjects
that cover the key specialization areas in Civil Engineering, such as Structural,
Geotechnical, Transportation and Highways, Hydraulics, and Environmental
Engineering, while bestowing an in-depth knowledge in Sustainable Designs,
Construction Technology, and management as well as Surveying. These
streams are taught in an intertwined manner so that the students gain a
thorough grounding of the diverse subject areas and their cross-applicability,
which would enable them to be competent and innovative engineers in
whichever specialized area they engage in the future as Civil Engineering
professionals.
                                                                                                32
Academic Staff

   Dr. Praween Madusanka              Prof. Chaminda Konthesingha           Prof. Ganga Samarasekara

        B.Sc.Eng.(Hons) (UOP)                  B.Sc.Eng.(Hons) (UOM)             B.Sc.Eng.(Hons) (UOM)
      M.Eng. (Hokkaido, Japan)                         M.Sc. (UOM)                    M.Eng. (Saitama)
       Ph.D. (Hokkaido, Japan)                                                         Ph.D. (Saitama)
                                                   Ph.D. (Newcastle)
        Head/Senior Lecturer                                                               Professor
  praweenmadusanka@sjp.ac.lk                             Professor                    gangas@sjp.ac.lk
                                               konthesingha@sjp.ac.lk
          Research interests:                                                      Research interests:
Solid Waste Management, Water,                   Research interests:        walkability in Street Network,
                                                  Structural Masonry,
      Wastewater and Septage          Lightweight Concrete, Fire Safety of      Green Boundary Walls &
                 Treatment                   Buildings, Retrofitting and        Vehicle Emissions, Traffic
                                             Strengthening of Masonry
                                                                                  Calming, Engineering
                                                                                           Education

      Dr. Nilan Weerakoon                    Dr. Irindu Upasiri                Mr. Wasantha Kumara

       B.Sc.Eng.(Hons) (UOP)               B.Sc.Eng.(Hons) (UOP)                  B.Sc.Eng.(Hons) (UOM)
     M.Eng. (Hokkaido, Japan)                       Ph.D. (USJ)                      M.B.A in PM (UOM)

       Ph.D. (Hokkaido, Japan)                  Senior Lecturer                    Ph.D. (Reading) (USJ)
                                           irinduupasiri@sjp.ac.lk
            Senior Lecturer                                                                 Lecturer
         weerakoon@sjp.ac.lk                 Research interests:                pmwpkumara@sjp.ac.lk
                                       Structural Fire performance;
         Research interests:          Lightweight Concrete & Finite                 Research interests:
Solidification of Soils, Rheological                                             Construction Materials,
                                              element modelling                  Applicability of Modern
   Properties of Soils, Peat Soils,                                         Project Management Methods
   Ground Improvement, Slope                                                    for Construction Projects

                   Stability
                                                                  33

     Mr. Avishka Siriwardana         Ms. Dilini Dissanayake       Mrs. Kobika Mathushan
                                         B.Sc.Eng.(Hons) (USJ)
         B.Sc.Eng.(Hons) (KDU)           Ph.D (Reading) (USJ)         B.Sc.Eng.(Hons) (UOJ)
         Ph.D. (Reading) (UOM)                                    MSustBltEnv Reading (UOP)
                                                  Lecturer
                   Lecturer          dilinidissanayake@sjp.ac.lk        Ph.D. Reading (USJ)
    avishkasiriwardana@sjp.ac.lk
                                                                                Lecturer
           Research interests:                                          kobithaya@sjp.ac.lk
   sustainable water distribution
systems & water safety approaches         Research interests:             Research interests:
                                      Finite Element modelling,        Construction Materials,
                                     Fire performance, Cracking       Sustainable Construction
                                      and Durability of masonry        Practices, Fire Safety of
                                                                  buildings, and Green Buildings
                                                  structures

 Mr. Chathura Amarasinghe

         B.Sc.Eng.(Hons) (USJ)
         M.Sc. (Reading) (UOP)

                  Lecturer
 chathuraamarasinghe@sjp.ac.lk

          Research interests:
Geo transportation, Slope stability
                                                                                                 34

Academic Support Staff

Ms. R.A.I. Devindi - Temporary Demonstrator
Ms. I.L. Roshilda - Temporary Demonstrator
Ms. M.D.P.I. Jayasena - Temporary Demonstrator
Mr. R.Anushan - Temporary Demonstrator
Mr. T.M.D.P. Thennakoon - Temporary Demonstrator
Ms. B.H.M.K. Herath- Temporary Demonstrator

Non-academic Staff

Ms. Diska Madushani - Technical Officer
Mr. Darshana Sandaruwan Adikari - Technical Officer
Ms. Erandi Kalanika - Technical Officer
Mr. L.N. Kumarasekara - Management Assistant
Ms. Koshila Soysa - Lab Attendant
Mr. K.A. Anuruddha - Lab Attendant
Mr. Ruwan Herath - Works Aid
                                                                                                 35
Curriculum of Civil Engineering

                               Semester 3

Course               Title                 Credit   Category   Contributin
 Code                                      Value                      g
                                                   Compulsory
CE2301 Structural Mechanics                 3      Compulsory     to GPA
                                                   Compulsory        Yes
CE2302 Fluid Mechanics                      3      Compulsory        Yes
                                                   Compulsory        Yes
CE2203 Building Design Process              2      Compulsory        Yes
                                                   Compulsory        Yes
CE2304 Surveying I                          3                        Yes
                                                                     Yes
IS2301 Engineering Mathematics III          3

IS2202 Engineering Mathematics IV           2

IS2261 Accounting for Engineers             2

                                Semester 4

Course               Title                 Credit   Category   Contributi
 Code                                      Value                    ng
                                                   Compulsory
CE2305 Structural Analysis I                3      Compulsory   to GPA

CE2306 Hydraulic Engineering                3                       Yes

                                                                    Yes

CE2307 Soil Mechanics and Engineering 3            Compulsory  Yes
              Geology I

CE2208 Construction Materials               2      Compulsory  Yes

CE2209 Environmental Engineering            2      Compulsory  Yes

CE2210 Highway and Transportation 2                Compulsory  Yes
              Engineering

CE2211 Surveying II                         2      Compulsory  Yes

IS2303 Engineering Mathematics V            3      Compulsory  Yes

IS2262 Economics and Management             2      Compulsory  Yes
                                                                       36

                                     Semester 5

Course                   Title             Credit     Category    Contributing
 Code                                      Value                       to GPA
                                                    Compulsory           Yes
CE3301 Structural Analysis II                    3  Compulsory            Yes
                                                    Compulsory            Yes
CE3202 Design of Steel Structures                2

CE3203 Engineering Hydrology                     2

CE3204 Soil Mechanics and Engineering 2             Compulsory    Yes
               Geology II

CE3205 Construction Planning and Cost 2             Compulsory    Yes
               Estimation

CE3251 Design of Timber Structures               2

CE3261 Environmental Hydraulics                  2  Elective (2)  Yes

CE3271 Traffic Engineering                       2

IS3261 Quantitative Methods in Management        2  Compulsory    No

IS3162 Intellectual Property                     1  Compulsory    No

IS3171 Sri Lankan History and Culture            1

IS3172 Ethnic Cohesion and Social Harmony        1  Elective (1)  No

IS3173/ Sinhala/Tamil 1
IS3174

                                    Semester 6

Course                   Title             Credit    Category     Contributing
 Code                                      Value                       to GPA
                                                    Compulsory            Yes
CE3306 Design of Concrete Structures I           3  Compulsory            Yes
                                                    Compulsory            Yes
CE3207 Hydraulic Design                          2  Compulsory            Yes
                                                    Compulsory            No
CE3308 Geotechnical Engineering                  3

CE3209 Construction Management                   2

CE3110 Surveying Field Project                   1

CE3252 Design of Masonry Structures              2

CE3262 Environmental Geotechnics                 2  Elective (2)  Yes

CE3272 Rail Transport Systems                    2

IS3263 Industrial Law                            2  Compulsory    Yes

IS3151 Technical Writing                         1  Compulsory    Yes

IS3175 Introduction to Philosophy                1

IS3176 Scientific Method                         1  Elective (1)  No

IS3177 Introduction to Psychology and 1
              Human Behaviour
                                                                    37

                            Industrial Training

Course  Title                            Credit  Category      Contributing
 Code                                    Value                     to GPA

CE3600 Industrial Training               6       Compulsory    No

                            Semester 7

Course  Title                            Credit   Category     Contributing
 Code                                    Value                     to GPA
                                                 Compulsory            Yes
CE4301 Design of Concrete Structures II  3       Compulsory            Yes
                                                 Compulsory            Yes
CE4202 Geotechnical Design               2       Compulsory            Yes

CE4603 Research Project                  3

CE4404 Comprehensive Design Project      2

CE4351 Advanced Structural Analysis and 3
             Design I

CE4352 Bridge Engineering                3

CE4361 Water and Wastewater 3                    Elective (6)  Yes
             Engineering

CE4362 Environmental Pollution Control   3

CE4371 Highway Engineering Design        3

CE4372 Transportation Planning and 3
              Economics

CE4305 Highway and Transportation 3              Optional      No
              Engineering Design

CE4306 Water and Wastewater Treatment    3

IS3171 Sri Lankan History and Culture    1

IS3172 Ethnic Cohesion and Social 1              Elective (1)  No
            Harmony

IS3173/ Sinhala/Tamil 1
IS3174
                                                                 38

                                   Semester 8

Course            Title                  Credit    Category      Contributing
 Code                                    Value                       to GPA
                                                  Compulsory            Yes
CE4603 Research Project                        3  Compulsory            Yes

CE4404 Comprehensive Design Project            2

CE4353 Advanced Structural Analysis and 3
              Design II

CE4254 Building Services                       2

CE4355 Construction Technology                 3

CE4361 Water and Wastewater Engineering        3

CE4363 Limnology                               3

CE4365 Environmental Management                3  Elective (10)  Yes

CE4371 Highway Engineering Design              3

CE4373 Traffic Management and Safety           3

CE4264 Environmental Impact Assessment         2

CE4374 Air and Water Transport Systems         3

CE4256 Sustainable Design and 2
              Construction

CE4305 Highway and Transportation 3               Optional       No
              Engineering Design

CE4306 Water and Wastewater Treatment          3

IS4171 Ethics in Engineering                   1  Compulsory     Yes

IS3175 Introduction to Philosophy              1

IS3176 Scientific Method                       1  Elective (1)   No

IS3177 Introduction to Psychology and 1
            Human Behaviour
                                                                                                 40

DEPARTMENT OF
COMPUTER ENGINEERING

The Department of Computer Engineering offers courses to undergraduates
from fundamentals to complex and advanced topics in modern computer
engineering such as computer hardware and embedded system design,
software engineering, bioinformatics, artificial intelligence, computer vision,
robotics, parallel computing, networking, computer security, cloud
computing, and database systems.

Minor speciality areas such as Data Management and High-Performance
Computing have been introduced with the degree programme. Students who
follow Data Management shall explore the topics of natural language
processing, quality engineering, and machine learning, where it integrates
current data science research and data-analytic techniques to find solutions in
various domains. Students who follow High-Performance Computing shall
study topics such as cloud computing and applications, advanced computer
architecture, and GPU programming. Students will be able to gain experience
in those areas by involving in multiple projects.

With the knowledge and skills gained, a Computer Engineering
undergraduate will be provided with countless opportunities to work in the
industry as a Computer Engineer, System Design Engineer, System Architect,
Software Engineer, or can continue onto postgraduate studies and research.
                                                                                                41
Academic Staff

Dr. Udaya Wijenayake     Dr. Randima Dinalankara        Dr. Krishanthmohan Ratnam

    B.Sc. (Hons)(UOC)      B.Sc.Eng. (Hons) (UOM)          B.Sc.Eng. (Hons)(UOP)
    M.Sc. (KNU, Korea)  Ph.D. (University of Missouri)             Ph.D. (NUS)
   Ph.D. (KNU, Korea)
                           Senior Lecturer                     Senior Lecturer
 Head/Senior Lecturer    randima@sjp.ac.lk                  rkmohan@sjp.ac.lk
     udayaw@sjp.ac.lk
                        Research interests:                Research interests:
  Research interests:    Machine Learning,                   Optical Networks,
Computer Vision, Image   Image Processing
                                                        Survivability Issues, Cloud
  Processing, Machine                                             Networking
           Learning
                                                                42

     Ms. Dilani Ranaweera         Mr. Ishara Dissanayake           Ms. Akarshani Amarasinghe

    B.Sc. (Hons) (Wayamba)        B.Sc. (Hons) (Middlesex)                 B.Sc. (Hons) (UOC)
             M.Sc. (UCSC)              M.Sc. (Middlesex)                Ph.D. (Reading) (USJ)

               Lecturer            M.Phil. (Reading) (UOK)                        Lecturer
  dilani.ranaweera@sjp.ac.lk                                    akarshani.amarasinghe@sjp.ac.lk
                                              Lecturer
       Research interests:      isharadissanayake@sjp.ac.lk              Research interests:
      Artificial Intelligence,                                            Machine Learning,
                                      Research interests:                Artificial Intelligence,
           Cryptography,         Wireless Sensor Networks,            Rainforcement Learning
HumanComputer Interaction,
                                   Cyber Security, Artificial
  Machine Learning, Natural                 Intelligence
 Language Processing, Deep

               Learning

Mr. Lakshan Madhushanka         Ms. Sanuri Liyanaarachchi
  B.Sc. Eng. (Hons) (UOP)          B.Sc. Eng. (Hons) (USJ)

              Lecturer                        Lecturer
       lakshan@sjp.ac.lk           sanurihimalka@sjp.ac.lk

     Research interests:              Research interests:
 Computer Vision, Medical              Machine Learning,
image processing, Robotics,     Artificial Intelligence, Human
                                     Computer Interaction
      Embedded systems
                                                                                               43

Academic Support Staff

     Ms. Ishani Hapuarachchi, Instructor
     Ms. Gayesha Akwaththa, Instructor
     Ms. Ayeshma Nanayakkara, Instructor
     Mr. Thisal Somarathna, Instructor
     Ms. Navodya Rathnasekara, Instructor
     Ms. Laksana Sriharan, Instructor

Non-academic Staff

     Mr. Yasitha Randula, Technical Officer
     Ms. Shakila Silva, Management Assistant
     Mr. Nalaka Munasinghe, Lab Attendant
     Mr. Ishan Munasinghe, Lab Attendant
     Mr. Samantha Wijenayake, Works Aid
                                                                44

Curriculum of Computer Engineering

               Semester 3

Course  Title                          Credit  Category    Contributing
Code                                   Value                   to GPA

CO2201 Data Structures and Algorithms  2       Compulsory  Yes
CO2202 Computer Organization
CO2203 Object Oriented Programming     2       Compulsory  Yes
CO2204 Data Communication
CO2105 Field Visit                     2       Compulsory  Yes
EE2206 Circuit Theory
 IS2301 Engineering Mathematics III    2       Compulsory  Yes
 IS2202 Engineering Mathematics IV
 IS2261 Accounting for Engineers       1       Compulsory  Yes

                                       2       Compulsory  Yes

                                       3       Compulsory  Yes

                                       2       Compulsory  Yes

                                       2       Compulsory  Yes

               Semester 4

Course  Title                          Credit  Category    Contributing
Code                                   Value                   to GPA

CO2206 Operating Systems               2       Compulsory  Yes
CO2307 Software Engineering
CO2208 Computer Networks               3       Compulsory  Yes
CO2209 Embedded Systems
CO2210 Programming Quest               2       Compulsory  Yes
ME2208 Theory of Control Systems
 IS2303 Engineering Mathematics V      2       Compulsory  Yes
 IS2262 Economics and Management
                                       2       Compulsory  Yes

                                       2       Compulsory  Yes

                                       3       Compulsory  Yes

                                       2       Compulsory  Yes
                                                                         45

                 Semester 5

Course    Title                               Credit  Category Contributing
Code                                          Value                         to GPA

CO3201    Database Systems                    2 Compulsory          Yes
CO3302    Computer Engineering Project
CO3203    Computer Security                   3 Compulsory          Yes
CO3251    Natural Language Processing
CO3252    Management Information Systems      2
CO3353    Data Mining
CO3261    Cloud Computing and Applications    2
CO3262    Advanced Computer Architecture
 IS3202   Discrete Mathematics                2
          Algorithms and Optimization
 IS3201   Methods                                     Elective (7)  Yes
          Newtonian Mechanics and
 IS3203   Lagrangian Dynamics                 3
          Mathematical Modelling and
 IS3204   Simulation                          2
          Quantitative Methods in
 IS3261   Management                          2
          Intellectual Property
 IS3162   Sri Lankan History and Culture      2 Compulsory          Yes
  IS3171  Ethnic Cohesion and Social Harmony
 IS3172                                       2
 IS3173/  Sinhala/Tamil
 IS3174                                       2       Optional      No

                                              2

                                              2 Compulsory          No

                                              1 Compulsory          No

                                              1

                                              1 Elective (1) No

                                              1
                                                                          46

                              Semester 6

Course                 Title                 Credit  Category        Contributing
Code                                         Value                       to GPA

CO3204 Robotic Design                            2   Compulsory      Yes
                                                 2
CO3205 Intelligent systems                       3   Compulsory      Yes

CO3554 Data Management Project                   3

CO3563 High Performance Computing                2   Elective (3)    Yes
              Project                            2
                                                 2
CO3255 Information Security                      2
                                                 2
CO3256 Quality Engineering
                                                 2
                                                     Elective (6)    Yes
                                                 2
CO3264 Advanced Operating Systems
                                                 2
CO3265 Parallel Programming
                                                 1
IS3205 Operations Research                       2
                                                 2
IS3206 Advanced Probability and Statistical      1
             Analysis                            1

IS3207 Time Series and Stochastic                    Optional        No
             Processes

IS3208 Linear Models and Multivariate
             Statistics

IS3151 Technical Writing                             Compulsory      Yes

IS3263 Industrial Law                                Compulsory      Yes

IS3264 Management for Engineers                      Compulsory      Yes

IS3175 Introduction to Philosophy

IS3176 Scientific Method                             Elective (0/1)  No

IS3177  Introduction to Psychology and
        Human Behavior

                                   Training

Course                 Title                 Credit  Category        Contributing
Code                                         Value                       to GPA

CO3600 Industrial Training                       6   Compulsory      No
                                                                      47

                              Semester 7

Course                 Title               Credit    Category    Contributing
Code                                       Value                     to GPA
                                                   Compulsory           Yes
CO4301 Individual Research/Design Project      3   Compulsory           Yes
                                               4   Compulsory
CO4002 Engineering Project                     2   Compulsory           Yes

CO4203 Microcontrollers and Applications       2

CO4204 Computer Vision and Image
               Processing

CO3554 Data Management Project             2

CO3563 High Performance Computing                  Elective (2)  Yes
              Project
                                           2

CO4351 Advanced Database Systems           3

CO4352 Advanced Algorithms                 3

                                                   Elective(3)   Yes

CO4361 Concurrent Processing               3

CO4362 GPU Programming                     3

IS4161  Sustainability and Disaster        2       Compulsory    Yes
        Management

IS3171 Sri Lankan History and Culture      1

IS3172  Ethnic Cohesion and Social         1 Elective (1) No
        Harmony

IS3173/ Sinhala/Tamil                      1
IS3174
                                                                 48

                              Semester 8

Course  Title                             Credit  Category  Contributing
Code                                      Value                to GPA

CO4002 Engineering Project                6 Compulsory      Yes
CO4205 Compilers
CO4306 Software Architecture and Design   2 Compulsory      Yes
CO4353 Distributed Systems
CO4254 Machine Learning                   3 Compulsory      Yes
CO4255 Bioinformatics
CO4256 Mobile Application Development     3
CO4263 Scientific Computing
                                          2

                                          2 Elective (5)    Yes

                                          2

                                          2

IS4171 Ethics in Engineering              1 Compulsory Yes

IS3175  Introduction to Philosophy        1
IS3176
IS3177  Scientific Method 1               1 Elective No
                                                        (1/0)
        Introduction to Psychology and
        Human Behavior                    1
4  "Prosper Lives through Education"

6
                                                                                                 50

DEPARTMENT OF
ELECTRICAL AND ELECTRONIC
ENGINEERING

The Department of Electrical and Electronic Engineering offers a specialization
that spans all scales of Electrical and Electronic Engineering. Courses offered
by the department are designed and constantly improved with the intention
that students shall gain knowledge and competence, starting from
fundamentals of circuits, electronic signals, and signal processing through
digital electronics and system-on-chips to the designs of large-scale power
and telecommunication systems. The department offers two minors in
Biomedical Engineering and Telecommunication Engineering. The students
who follow the minor in Biomedical Engineering shall acquire state-of-the-art
knowledge in applying engineering practices to medicine and healthcare. The
minor in Telecommunication Engineering provides a comprehensive
understanding of the design and implementation of telecommunication
systems and provides a vision of upcoming next-generation networks.

The strong industry and, inter-faculty collaborations cater further
opportunities to students in enhancing their knowledge and experience.
Electrical and Electronics Engineering graduates are in high demand in the
industry and academia, both locally and internationally, in a multitude of areas
including electronic designing and manufacturing, power generation,
industrial and power electronics, automation systems, computer
programming, telecommunications, robotics, health care, manufacturing, and
water and energy systems.
                                                                                                51
Academic Staff

 Dr. Uditha Wijewardhana      Dr. Nishan Dharmaweera            Dr. Charithri Yapa

B.Sc.Eng. (Hons) (Moratuwa)      B.Eng. (Hons) (Monash)  B.Sc.Eng. (Hons) (Moratuwa)
             M.Eng. (AIT)             Ph.D. (Monash))      M.Sc. (Manitoba, Canada)
                                                                       PhD (USJ)
      Ph.D. (Oulu, Finland)   Dean/ Former Head/Senior
                                            Lecturer              Senior Lecturer
    Head /Senior Lecturer                                   charithriyapa@sjp.ac.lk
         uditha@sjp.ac.lk          nishanmd@sjp.ac.lk
                                                               Research interests:
      Research interests:          Research interests:   Power Systems Stability and
  Wireless Communication,       Optical Communication,
Network Optimization, Signal                                Control, Power Systems
                                  Network Optimization         Protection, Electrical
              Processing                                     Machines, Smart grids,
                                                                      Blockchain

    Dr. Pasan Maduranga       Mr. Nimantha Madhushan        Ms. Umaya Balagalla

      BSc Eng Hons (AIT)      B.Sc.Eng. (Hons) (Ruhuna)    B.Sc.Eng. (Hons) (KDU)
          MSc.Eng (UoP)                 M.Phil. (USJ)              M.Phil. (USJ)
            PhD (IICUT)
                                           Lecturer                   Lecturer
         Senior Lecturer        nimanthamk@sjp.ac.lk     umayabalagalla@sjp.ac.lk
        pasanm@sjp.ac.lk
                                  Research interests:        Research interests:
      Research interests:     Energy Monitoring, Power      Medical Image/Video
  Wireless communication,                                Processing, Biomechanics
Radio-based localization and        Systems, Industrial   and Prosthetics, Medical
                              Automation, and Smart IoT
     sensing, AI/ML-based                                       Instrumentation
   communication systems                    Systems

                design
                                                            52

  Ms. Narmada Ranaweera       Ms. Dhanushika Darshani

  B.Sc.Eng.(Hons) (Ruhuna)       B.Sc.Eng.(Hons)(SEUSL)
              M.Sc (Spain)             Ph.D (Reading)

                Lecturer                      Lecturer
narmadaranaweera@sjp.ac.lk    dhanushikadarshani@sjp.ac.lk

      Research interests:          Research interests:
Power systems, Micro Grids,     LiFi technologies, Digital
Renewable Energy, Electrical
                                         Twins, 5G/6G
              Machines                Communication
                                                                                                53

Academic Supporting Staff

     Ms. Dinika Piyarathna - Temporary Demonstrator
     Ms. Mithara Sathmi - Temporary Demonstrator
     Ms. Senuri Keerthirathna - Temporary Demonstrator
     Ms. Chamodi Peiris - Temporary Demonstrator

Non-academic Staff

     Mr. Tharusha Nadeeranga - Technical Officer
     Mr. Roshan Mahakumbura - Technical Officer
     Mr. Lakshitha Mendis - Management Assistant
     Mr. Madushanka Priyanjith - Lab Attendant
     Mr. Romesh Lokubogahage - Lab Attendant
     Mr. Kasun Pushpakumara - Works Aid
                                                              54

Curriculum of Electrical and Electronic Engineering

                         Semester 3

Course  Title                        Credit  Category    Contributing
Code                                 Value                  to GPA

EE2201 Power Systems I               2       Compulsory  Yes
EE2203 Machines and Drives I
EE2305 Analog Electronics            2       Compulsory  Yes
EE2206 Circuit Theory
CO2202 Computer Organization         3 Compulsory        Yes
CO2203 Object Oriented Programming
 IS2301 Engineering Mathematics III  2       Compulsory  Yes
 IS2202 Engineering Mathematics IV
 IS2261 Accounting for Engineers     2       Compulsory  Yes

                                     2       Optional    No

                                     3 Compulsory        Yes

                                     2       Compulsory  Yes

                                     2       Compulsory  Yes

                         Semester 4

Course  Title                        Credit  Category    Contributing
 Code                                Value                  to GPA

EE2202 Power Systems II              2       Compulsory  Yes

EE2204 Communication I               2       Compulsory  Yes

EE2207 Digital Electronics           2       Compulsory  Yes
EE2208 Embedded Systems
EE2309 Electrical Installations      2       Compulsory  Yes
ME2208 Theory of Control Systems
 IS2303 Engineering Mathematics V    3       Compulsory  Yes
 IS2262 Economics and Management
                                     2       Compulsory  Yes

                                     3       Compulsory  Yes

                                     2       Compulsory  Yes
                                                              55

                               Semester 5

Course  Title                            Credit    Category   Contributing
Code                                     Value   Compulsory      to GPA
                                                 Compulsory         Yes
EE3201 Signal Processing                   2                        Yes
                                                    Elective
EE3202 Machines and Drives II              2           (8/7)        Yes

EE3151 Introduction to Biomedical 1                 Optional         No
             Engineering
                                                    Elective        Yes
EE3252 Anatomy and Control Systems of 2                 (2)
              the Human Body I                                       No
                                                 Compulsory          No
EE3253 Introduction to Image Processing    2     Compulsory          No

EE3361 Communication II                    3        Elective
                                                         (1)
EE3262 Data Communication                  2

CO3201 Database Systems                    2

IS3201 Algorithms and Optimization 2
             Methods

IS3202 Discrete Mathematics                2

IS3203 Newtonian Mechanics and 2
             Lagrangian Dynamics

IS3204 Mathematical Modelling and 2
             Simulation

IS3261 Quantitative Methods in 2
             Management

IS3162 Intellectual Property               1

IS3171 Sri Lankan History and Culture      1

IS3172 Ethnic Cohesion and Social 1
             Harmony

IS3173/ Sinhala/Tamil 1
IS3174
                                                                      56

                                   Semester 6

Course                 Title                 Credit  Category    Contributing
 Code                                        Value                   to GPA

EE3203 Electromagnetics                          2   Compulsory  Yes
                                                 2
EE3204 Industrial Automation and System          2   Compulsory  Yes
             Design                              3
                                                 2
EE3205 Digital System Design                         Compulsory  Yes
                                                 3
EE3354 Machine Learning                          2
                                                 2
EE3255 Anatomy and Control Systems of the        2   Elective Yes
            Human Body II                        2     (7/8)

EE3363 Next Generation Networks                  2
                                                 2
EE3264 Digital Communication                     2
                                                 1
IS3205 Operations Research                       1
                                                 1
IS3206 Operations Research                       1

IS3207 Time Series and Stochastic                    Optional    No
            Processes

IS3208 Linear Models and Multivariate
            Statistics

IS3263 Industrial Law                                Compulsory  Yes

IS3264 Management for Engineers                      Compulsory  Yes

IS3151 Technical Writing                             Compulsory  Yes

IS3175 Introduction to Philosophy

IS3176 Scientific Method                             Elective No
                                                       (0/1)
IS3177 Introduction to Psychology and
           Human Behaviour

                                   Training

Course                 Title                 Credit  Category Contributing
Code                                         Value                          to GPA

EE3600 Industrial Training                       6   Compulsory  No
                                                                    57

         Semester 7

 Course                         Title      Credit  Category    Contributing
 Code                                      Value                   to GPA
         Research and Design Project
EE4301   Engineering Project                   3   Compulsory  Yes
EE4002   Robotics                              3
EE4303   Power Electronic Circuit Design       3   Compulsory  Yes
EE4204   Electronic Manufacturing Systems      2
EE4205   Biomedical Image Analysis             2   Compulsory  Yes
EE4351   Biomedical Instrumentation            3
EE4252   Biomechanics                          2   Compulsory  Yes
EE4253   Wireless Communication                2
EE4361   Internet of Things                    3   Elective Yes
EE4262   Sustainability and Disaster           2       (5)
         Management
 IS4161  Sri Lankan History and Culture    1       Compulsory  Yes
         Ethnic Cohesion and Social
 IS3171  Harmony                           1

 IS3172  Sinhala/Tamil                     1 Elective No
                                                            (1)
IS3173/
 IS3174                                    1
                                                                 58

               Semester 8

Course  Title                           Credit  Category    Contributing
Code                                    Value                   to GPA

EE4002 Engineering Project                  7   Compulsory  Yes
EE4308 VLSI Circuits                        3
EE4354 Mobile Application Development       3   Elective Yes
EE4206 Power Systems III                    2       (3)
EE4207 High Voltage Engineering             2
EE4255 Genetics                             2   Elective Yes
EE4256 Medical Informatics                  2       (6)
EE4263 Information Theory and Coding        2
EE4209 Energy Studies                       2
EE4264 Cryptography and Network
                                        2
             Security
 IS4171 Ethics in Engineering           1       Compulsory  Yes
 IS3175 Introduction to Philosophy
 IS3176 Scientific Method               1
 IS3177 Introduction to Psychology and
                                        1 Elective No
             Human Behaviour                            (1/0)

                                        1
                                                                                                 60

DEPARTMENT OF

MECHANICAL ENGINEERING

The courses offered by the Department of Mechanical Engineering are designed to
give students the broad skill set required to pursue their goals, whether that is
working as a Mechanical Engineer, Product Design Engineer, Energy Consultant,
Entrepreneur, or continuing on to graduate study and research, throughout the
globe. This specialization combines a broad-based education in the engineering
sciences with a strong grounding in quantitative, problem solving, design, and
communication skills. In the Department of Mechanical Engineering, students
learn by doing, experiencing a level of understanding that only occurs through
creative activities.

The department offers minors in areas of emerging sciences in Mechanical
Engineering. Currently the minors in Mechatronics, Building Services and
Manufacturing Engineering are offered by the department. The minor in
Mechatronics Engineering covers the areas of robotics, vision systems, control
systems, advanced automation, and micro mechatronics. The minor in
Manufacturing Engineering covers the areas of production and operations
management, advanced manufacturing systems and computer aided designing
and manufacturing. Heating,ventilation, and air-conditioning (HVAC) systems,
piped services and green building engineering are covered in the minor of Building
Services. The curriculum of Mechanical Engineering ranges across the
fundamentals of engineering mechanics, thermodynamics, energy engineering,
building services, manufacturing, aerodynamics, and computer- based simulations
with numerical approaches to designing products with a significant impact to
society.
                                                                                                61
Academic Staff

    Dr. Darshana Makavita        Dr.Dulini Mudunkotuwa       Dr. Geethal Siriwardana

    B.Sc.Eng. (Hons) (UOM)        B.Sc.Eng. (Hons) (UOM)           B.Sc.Eng. (UOR)
            M.Sc. (UOM)               M.Eng. (UTokyo)               M.Eng. (UOM)
            Ph.D. (UTAS)                Ph.D. (UTokyo)
                                                                       Ph.D (USJ)
     Head/Senior Lecturer    Senior Lecturer/Former Head
       makavita@sjp.ac.lk              dulini@sjp.ac.lk            Senior Lecturer
                                                                  geethal@sjp.ac.lk
       Research Interests:          Research Interests:
Control Systems, Underwater         Computational Fluid         Research Interests:
                             Dynamics, Numerical Weather        Computational Fluid
     Robotics, Engineering   Prediction, Data Assimilation   Dynamics, Microfluidics,
              Education                                     Nanofluids, Heat Transfer,

                                                                  MEMS Biomedical
                                                                      Engineering

  Mr. Yasun Sampath            Mr. Sayuru Bandara                Mr. Anjan Rajapakse

B.Sc.Eng.(Hons) (KDU)        B.Sc.Eng. (Hons) (UOM)             B.Sc.Eng. (Hons) (USJ)
 Ph.D. (Reading) (USJ)         Ph.D (Reading) (USJ)             M.Phil (Reading) (USJ)

          Lecturer                     Lecturer                           Lecturer
    yasun@sjp.ac.lk           sayurudilan@sjp.ac.lk           anjanrajapakse@sjp.ac.lk

  Research Interests:           Research Interests:               Research Interests:
 Computational Fluid         Mechatronics, Robotics,        Microfluidics, Computational
Dynamics, Automobile
 Engineering, Design,                Automation                      Fluid Dynamics,
                                                                      Manufacturing
     Manufacturing
                                                         62

   Ms. Nilani Pathinayake    Mr. Kasun Sooriyapperuma       Mr. Uvindu Thilakarathne

        B.Sc.Eng. (UOR)         B.Sc.Eng. (Hons) (USJ)        B.Sc.Eng. (Hons) (USJ)
      MBA in MoT (UOM)          M.Phil. (Reading) (USJ)       M.Phil. (Reading) (USJ)

            MDA (UOK)                     Lecturer                      Lecturer
    M.Phil. (Reading) (USJ)    kasunchanuka@sjp.ac.lk    uvinduthilakarathne@sjp.ac.lk

              Lecturer            Research Interests:           Research Interests:
pathinayakenilani@sjp.ac.lk     Mechatronics, Machine             Green Hydrogen,

      Research Interests:          learning, Robotics,       Electrolysers, Fuel Cells,
  Technology Management,      Automation, Underwater             Renewable Energy,
Engineering Education, Data                                      Thermodynamics,
analytics, Machine learning               robotics                   Sustainability
                                                                                                 63

Academic Support Staff

Mr. Gayath Dayarathne, Temporary Assistant Lecturer
Ms. Bhagyani Randunuge, Temporary Instructor
Mr. Ashan Indusara, Temporary Instructor
Mr. Kodees Rajah, Temporary Instructor
Ms. Gajaanee Jeyakumar, Temporary Instructor
Mr. Maduranga Dilshan, Craft Demonstrator

Non-academic Staff

Ms. Tharaka Serasinghe, Technical Officer
Ms. Thilini Liyanage, Management Assistant
Mr. Pasan Palihena, Lab Attendant
Mr. Yashodha Hiran, Lab Attendant
Mr. Ruwan Kumara, Lab Attendant
Mr. Thisara Bandara, Works Aid
                                                              64

Curriculum of Mechanical Engineering

               Semester 3

Course  Title                        Credit   Category   Contributing
Code                                 Value                   to GPA
                                             Compulsory         Yes
ME2301 Theory of Machines                3   Compulsory         Yes
ME2302 Fluid Dynamics                    3   Compulsory         Yes
ME2303 Applied Thermodynamics I          3   Compulsory         Yes
ME2104 Sensors and Actuators             1   Compulsory         Yes
 EE2191 Electrical Machines              1   Compulsory         Yes
 IS2301 Engineering Mathematics III      3   Compulsory         Yes
 IS2202 Engineering Mathematics IV       2   Compulsory         Yes
 IS2261 Accounting for Engineers         2

               Semester 4

Course  Title                        Credit   Category   Contributing
Code                                 Value   Compulsory      to GPA

ME2305 Strength of Materials I           3                      Yes
ME2206 Analysis of Manufacturing
                                     2       Compulsory  Yes
              Processes
ME2307 Design of Machine Elements    3       Compulsory  Yes
ME2208 Theory of Control Systems
ME2209 Fundamentals of Mechatronics  2       Compulsory  Yes
 IS2303 Engineering Mathematics V
 IS2262 Economics and Management     2       Compulsory  Yes

                                     3       Compulsory  Yes

                                     2       Compulsory  Yes
                                                                          65

                                 Semester 5

Course  Title                               Credit  Category       Contributing
Code                                        Value                      to GPA

ME3201 Strength of Materials II                 2   Compulsory     Yes
ME3202 Fluid Machinery                          2
                                                    Compulsory     Yes

ME3203 Dynamics of Mechanical Systems        2      Compulsory     Yes

ME3205 Automobile Technology                 2      Compulsory     Yes

ME3250 Manufacturing Systems                 2
ME3351 Production and Operations
                                             3
              Management
ME3352 HVAC System                           3
ME3253 Piped Services
ME3354 Robotics and Vision Systems                  Electives (5)  Yes
ME3255 Microcontrollers and
                                             2
              Microprocessor Based Systems
 IS3201 Algorithms and Optimization          3

              Methods                        2
 IS3202 Discrete Mathematics
 IS3203 Newtonian Mechanicsand               2

              Lagrangian Dynamics            2
IS3204 Mathematical Modelling and                      Electives (2) Yes

              Simulation                     2
 IS3261 Quantitative Methodsin
                                             2
              Management
 IS3162 Intellectual Property                2      Compulsory     No
 IS3171 Sri Lankan History and Culture
 IS3172 Ethnic Cohesion and Social           1      Compulsory     No

              Harmony                        1

IS3173/ Sinhala/Tamil                        1

                                                    Electives (1)  No

                                             1
                                                                                       66

                                 Semester 6

Course                 Title                               Credit  Category       Contributing
Code                                                       Value                      to GPA

ME3806 Comprehensive Mechanical                            8 Compulsory           Yes
              Engineering Design

ME3207 Applied Thermodynamics II                           2 Compulsory           Yes

ME3256 Product - Process Design                            2

ME3357 Group Project (Manufacturing)                       3

ME3258 Electrical Installation, Distribution and Lighting  2
ME3359 Group Project (Building Services)
                                                                   Electives (5)  Yes

                                                           3

ME3260 Advanced Automation                                 2

ME3361 Mechatronics Project                                3

IS3205 Operations Research                                 2

IS3206 Advanced Probability and                            2
             Statistical Analysis
                                                                   Optional       No
IS3207 Time Series and Stochastic
             Processes                                     2

IS3208 Linear Models and Multivariate 2
             Statistics

IS3263 Industrial Law                                      2 Compulsory           Yes

IS3151 Technical Writing                                   1       Compulsory     Yes

IS3264 Management for Engineers                            2 Compulsory           Yes

IS3175 Introduction to Philosophy                          1

IS3176 Scientific Method                                   1
IS3177 Introduction to Psychology and
                                                                   Electives (1)  No
            Human Behaviour
                                                           1
                                                                              67

                            Training

Course  Title                                          Credit  Category  Contributing
Code                                                   Value                 to GPA

ME3600 Industrial Training                             6 Compulsory      No

                            Semester 7

Course  Title                                          Credit  Category  Contributing
Code                                                   Value                 to GPA

ME4001 Engineering Project                             4 Compulsory      Yes
ME4102 Solid Mechanics
ME4404 Individual Research Project                     1 Compulsory      Yes
ME4103 Advanced Fluid Dynamics
ME4262 Green Engineering and Environmental Compliance  4 Compulsory      Yes
ME4363 Advanced Manufacturing Processes
ME4364 Building Power Systems and Design               1 Compulsory      Yes
ME4265 Energy Performance in Buildings
ME4366 Computer-Based Measurement                      2

              Systems                                  3
ME4267 Graphical Programing and Virtual
                                                       3
              Instrumentation
  IS4161 Sustainability and Disaster                   2 Electives (5)   Yes

              Management                               3
  IS3171 Sri Lankan History and Culture
 IS3172 Ethnic Cohesion and Social Harmony             2
 IS3173/ Sinhala/Tamil
 IS3174                                                1 Compulsory      Yes

                                                       1
                                                       1 Electives (1) No
                                                       1
                                                                       68

                              Semester 8

Course                Title                Credit  Category       Contributing
Code                                       Value                      to GPA

ME4001 Engineering Project                 6       Compulsory     Yes

ME4205 Heat Transfer                       2       Compulsory     Yes

ME4106 Advanced Machine Dynamics           1       Compulsory     Yes

ME4369 Computer Aided Manufacturing        3

ME4270 Industrial Automation               2

ME4271 Building Acoustics                  2

ME4372 Facility and Building Environment 3         Electives (5)  Yes
              Management

ME4373 Smart Sensors, Actuators and 3
              Intelligent Systems

ME4274 Introduction to Micro-mechatronics  2

IS4171 Ethics in Engineering               1       Compulsory     Yes

IS3175 Introduction to Philosophy          1

IS3176 Scientific Method                   1       Electives (1)  No

IS3177 Introduction to Psychology and 1
            Human Behaviour
                                                                                                 69

DEPARTMENT OF
INTERDICSIPLINARY STUDIES

 The Department of Interdisciplinary Studies caters to all four specializations in
 which the faculty offers its degrees, via offering courses to the undergraduates
 that provide them with a plethora of competencies that a professional
 engineer is expected to possess.The department delivers a wide range of core
 engineering modules such as engineering mathematics, modeling and
 simulation, and measurements while also offering supplementary courses in
 the fields of communication, management, law and humanities. Further, the
 undergraduates are also provided with comprehensive knowledge on
 mathematical and statistical software, which are essential for solving practical
 problems in engineering.

 The Department is also collaborating with the Faculty of Medicine, Faculty of
 Applied Science and Faculty of Humanities and Social Sciences in
 interdisciplinary research activities. As per the department's strategic
 direction, research and industry collaborations are initiated with the
 Department of Archeology, Central Cultural Fund and Sri Lanka Tourism
 Development Authority.

 The department also offers an opportunity for students to initiate
 interdisciplinary research and promotes holistic and trans-boundary nature of
 problem solving that is highly expected from a modern day professional
 engineer. All of the courses are being offered by the department with the aim
 of developing and enhancing soft skills, managerial skills as well as leadership
 skills of the engineering undergraduates which will eventually aid them in
 their career advancement.
                                                              70

Dr. Shyam Kularathna           Dr. Nadika Jayasooriya         Mr. Gayantha Kodagoda

   B.Sc.Eng. (Hons) (UOM),     BSc. Eng (Hons) (UOM), Ph.D.        B.Sc. Eng. (Hons)(UOM),
     M.Sc. (UTokyo), Ph.D.       (UOM), CIMA (UK)- Passed            Ph.D (Reading) (USJ)
                                          Finalist, CMILT
(UTokyo), CIMA (UK)-Passed                                                    Lecturer
               Finalist                 Senior Lecturer            gmkodagoda@sjp.ac.lk
                                nadikakeshan@gmail.com
    Head/Senior Lecturer                                             Research interests:
shyamkularathna@sjp.ac.lk            Research interests:        Numerical Modeling, Aerial
                                 Intelligent Transportation      manipulators, Underwater
     Research interests:          Systems, Transportation      Drones, Soft Robotics, AR/VR
 Sustainability, Renewable       Engineering & Economics,
  Energy Systems, Agent-          Monitoring & Evaluation,
 based modeling, Decision      Project Management, Sports

    Science, Simulation of                     Science
  Human-Natural systems.

Ms. Sajini Wickramasinghe      Mr. Manoj Samarakoon

    B.A. (Hons) (UOK), LLB          B.Sc.Eng. (Hons) (USJ),
      (Hons) (University of         M.Phil. (Reading) (USJ)

 London), M.Phil. (Reading)                   Lecturer
                (UOC)          smmhsamarakoon@sjp.ac.lk

              Lecturer               Research interests :
    sajinitharika@sjp.ac.lk       Intelligent Transportation

      Research interests:            Systems, Sustainable
Sociolinguistics, Testing and             Transportation

    Evaluation, Language
   Teaching Methodology
                                                                                                  71

Academic Support Staff

Mr. Thiumi Kaluarachchi, Temporary Instructor

Non-academic Staff

Mrs. Panchani Rathnayaka - Management Assistant
                                                                                                  72

OFFICE OF THE DEAN

Dean is the academic and administrative head of the Faculty. The office of the
Dean co-ordinates the academic and administrative activities of the Faculty. Each
academic department is headed by a Head of Department who functions under
the supervision of the Dean of the Faculty.

The main task of the office of the Dean is to provide the administrative mechanism
and support required for coordinating the departments and the degree program.
Also, it would be responsible for activities such as programs scheduling (specially
the common programs of the first year), coordinating, academic advising, and
maintaining student records.

The administration division of the faculty is headed by the Assistant Registrar
under the supervision of the Dean. Similarly, the financial administration of the
faculty is headed by the Assistant Bursar.

Staff of the Office of the Dean

Ms. Kumari Dassanayake      Mr. E.M. Gunarathne
Senior Assistant Registrar      Deputy Bursar

Dr. P.H.G.W.M. Maheepa, Medical Officer
Dr. Kasun Indunil Wijethilaka, Student Counselor
Mr. Randeep Handunwala, Assistant Network Manager
Ms. S.B.M.A. Semasinghe, Nursing Officer
Ms. P.K.W. Nuwanthika, Pharmacist
Ms. Gothami Kularathna, Senior Staff Management Assistant
Mr. Sanka Samaraweera, Technical Officer (ICT)
Mr. D T Thilakarathne, Works Superintendent
Ms. Deshani Kandekumbura, Management Assistant
Ms. Subashini Dissanayaka, Management Assistant
Ms. Prasadini Sooriyaarachchi, Management Assistant
Mr. Rukman Manjula, Electrician
Mr. Lakshman Jayasekara, Carpenter
Mr. Dananjaya Bandara, Works Aid
Mr. P.A.G.S.B.P. Arachchi, Works Aid
                                                                                                  73

GENERAL INFORMATION
AND FACILITIES

Student Record Book

Each student registered to follow the Degree Programme in Engineering will be
issued with a Student Record Book (SRB) by the University. The SRB must be updated
as the student progresses in the study programme. This book contains basic
information of the student, such as his name, registration number, date of
registration, contact information, and national identity card number.

The SRB is the property of the University and should not be abused, altered and
tampered with or transferred to a third party. In the event of the loss of the SRB, a
student should immediately report the loss to the Students Affairs Division/ Dean of
the Faculty. In the event a duplicate SRB is to be issued, the student concerned will be
liable to pay a surcharge and the cost of issuing the record book.

Student Identity Card

All students are provided with an Identity Card issued by the University. Each student
is required to carry the Identity Card in person at all times within the University
premises. Student should produce the Identity Card and prove his identity on being
asked to do so by any Academic Staff member, security personnel or any other person
authorized to do so by the Vice Chancellor. The Identity Card is the property of the
University and should not be abused, altered and tampered with or transferred to a
third party. In the event of the loss of the Identity Card, the student should
immediately report the loss to the Students Affairs Division/ Dean of the Faculty. The
student concerned will be liable to pay a surcharge and the cost of issuing a duplicate
Identity Card.

 By-laws on Student Discipline

Students are expected to behave responsibly without disrupting activities of the
faculty. In case a student behaves otherwise, he/she may be subjected to disciplinary
action by the University in accordance with the `By-laws on Student Discipline'. It is
the declared policy of the University that there will be zero tolerance on "Ragging". All
students must be aware of the provisions in the "Prohibition of Ragging and Other
Forms of Violence in Educational Institutions Act, No. 20 of 1998".
                                                                                                 74

Policy on Excusing from Academic Activities

A student may be excused from academic activities such as lectures, tutorials,
practical work, and assignments due to the demise of a parent, a sibling, or spouse, or
due to any valid medical reason. The student is responsible for submitting authentic
evidence, within fourteen (14) days of the event due to which `excuse' is being sought.
The acceptability of such evidence would be determined by the Faculty.

Examination Procedure

The procedure a student should follow during examinations are described in the
"Examination criteria, rules and regulations, examination irregularities, punishments
applicable to candidates sitting first degrees, postgraduate degrees and external
degrees conducted by the University" in Student Handbook of University of Sri
Jayewardenepura. Violation of the provisions described in the document under
reference, will result in the student being disciplinarily dealt with. All students are
required to educate themselves about the examination procedure and the respective
Rules and Regulations of the University of Sri Jayewardenepura.

Financial Assistance for Students

Mahapola Scholarships

Mahapola scholarships are awarded to selected students based on merit or need
where they would receive financial assistance as determined by the Mahapola Trust
Fund. Students are informed via public notice by the Welfare Division about the dates
on which the instalments will be paid.

University Bursaries

Those who are not eligible for the Mahapola scholarship may apply for University
Bursaries for financial assistance. Further information will be available with the
Welfare Division of the University, who will receive and process the applications.

Library

The Library plays an important role in the university's education, supporting the three
main pillars of the university: teaching, learning, and research. In the Main Library of
the Sri Jayewardenepura University, there is a collection of more than two hundred
thousand books, and hundreds of journals and electronic databases. The library has
acquired a number of electronic resources such as e-books, e-journals, bibliographies
and full text databases covering varieties of subject areas. All these databases and free
sources are listed under e-resources in the library website.
                                                                                                  75

Students from the Faculty of Engineering can use both the Main Library located
within the main campus premises and the branch Faculty Library located within the
Engineering Faculty premises.

Library of the Faculty of Engineering

The library of the Faculty of Engineering contains all the relevant textbooks in the four
major disciplinary streams of Engineering along with supportive subject areas and
other relevant reading materials. Students could also use the computers in the
Faculty Library to access electronic databases and journals.

The usual opening hours of the library are from 8.15 am to 4.15 pm on weekdays.
However, opening hours could be extended based on special requirements.
                                                                                                 76

Industrial Training Division (ITD)

The Industrial Training Division (ITD) of the Faculty of Engineering, University of Sri
Jayewardenepura is functioning directly under the Dean of the Faculty of Engineering
and is located at the Faculty of Engineering, Lumbini Avenue, Ratmalana.

Students following the Bachelor of Science of Engineering Honours degree
conducted by the Faculty of Engineering, University of Sri Jayewardenepura are
required to undergo 24 weeks of industrial training in an industrial establishment as a
compulsory requirement of the study programme.

The ITD in collaboration with the respective departments of the Faculty and the
National Apprentice and Industrial Training Authority (NAITA) make arrangements to
place the students in suitable establishments for idustrial training. The ITD is also
responsible for managing and monitoring matters related to industrial training,
coordinating with training providers, supervising the students during training and
conducting assessments.

Computer Center

The students could access the Computer Center of the Faculty of Engineering, which
is equipped with modern computers that are networked and provided with internet
facilities. The Computer Centre is equipped to facilitate both the first-year common
courses and some of the courses taken under specialized streams.

All students will be provided with a university student email account upon request.
Free Wi-Fi is available within the faculty premises to all the students.
                                                                                                  77

 Canteen and Convenience Store

The faculty canteen provides cooked meals, hot/cold beverages, and other food items
for the students at concession rates.
The Convenience Store offers products such as confectioneries, snacks, cold
beverages, stationary items, printed media, and other daily commodities. A photocopy
service is also available at the Convenience Store.

Hostel Facility

Separate hostel accommodation is available for both male and female students of the
faculty. The priority is given to first year and fourth year students. Since
accommodation in hostels is limited, please be noted that university authorities may
not be able to provide accommodation to all applicants.

Mentors

Each student is assigned with an academic staff member as his/her mentor to
support smooth engagement in academic activities. Students are encouraged to
discuss the academic/personal issues that hinder his/her studies with the assigned
mentor.

                                               77
                                                                                                 78

UNIVERSITY STUDENT COUNCIL,
FACULTY UNION, AND SOCIETIES

As provided in the Universities Act No. 16 of 1978 and as amended, there exist
University Student Council, Faculty Unions and other societies, which function under
By-laws approved by the University. Further, there is a multitude of University
approved learned societies, which will engage students in religious, educational and
recreational activities.

IESL Student Chapter

IESL Student Chapter in the University of Sri Jayewardenepura is one of the most
active student chapters which is established in collaboration with the IESL Young
Members' Section. The objectives of the chapter are to disseminate knowledge,
theory and practice of aspects related to the relevant discipline of engineering while
professionally developing the students and encouraging them to be socially
responsible people. The initial foundation for the Chapter was laid by Dr. Akila
Subasinghe, the founding Dean of the Faculty and Dr. Chamitha de Alwis in 2017. The
formal establishment of the IESL Student Chapter took place on 9th of September
2019 under the guidance of Prof. K.M.C. Konthesingha and Dr. G.N. Samarasekara.

Since the establishment, the chapter has been actively incorporating with the faculty
undergraduates by supplementing them with educational, professional and soft skills
development activities to help them to mold themselves into skilled engineers. The
chapter's activities include seminars focusing on various disciplines of engineering
and soft skill development, webinars with the cooperation of academics and industry
experts, CSR projects, activities with the cooperation of IESL Sri Lanka, etc.

All the undergraduate and postgraduate students of the Faculty of Engineering are
eligible to be members of the IESL Student Chapter. The students can take part in
various activities and events such as IESL day, IESL Techno, Techno Games, IESL YMS
Technical Conference, Inter University Debate Competition, Talk to School programs
which are conducted in collaboration with the IESL, Sri Lanka.
                                                                                                 79

IET Sri Lanka Network

The Institution of Engineering &amp; Technology (IET) is one of the premier
professional engineering organizations in Sri Lanka with headquarters in the
UK. As a professional organization, IET plays a major role in the career
development of engineering professionals throughout the world. IET global
network has a membership of over 167,000 qualified engineers representing
150 countries over the world gaining support and recognition from the
IET.
The IET Sri Lanka is the 9th local network in the South Asian region and it has
been set up to serve the members of IET who live in Sri Lanka and to
coordinate local activities. The local network's activities include evening
forums, committee meetings, technical sessions, workshops, international
conferences/symposiums, field visits, conducting radio/TV programs for public
awareness, and younger member sessions. The IET has had members in Sri
Lanka for over 80 years, with a current growing membership of over 1,000
engineers. IET Sri Lanka collaborates with the Institution of Engineers Sri
Lanka (IESL), the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers (IEEE), the
British Computer Society (BCS), the Computer Society of Sri Lanka (CSSL), the
Institute of Physics Sri Lanka (IPSL) and the engineering faculties of the
universities in Sri Lanka for many activities in the electrical, electronics &amp;
telecommunications and computer engineering related fields.

IET Young Professionals

The IET Young Professionals Sri Lanka Network (IET YP SLN) consists of young
IET members who are below the age of 35 and student members
(undergraduates). The Young Woman Engineer (YWE) Award, which was
initiated in 2017, is the key event of the YP SLN. Apart from that, several
workshops, guest lectures, competitions, technical conferences, and field visits
are organized for the younger members and undergraduate students.
Annually, the Young Professional Technical Conference (YPTC) is organized for
students to showcase their research works. IET YP SLN supports students to
build a community as a society or student organization within the university
by providing resources and funding for extracurricular events. Under the IET
YP SLN, there are nine on-campus. The IET On-Campus at the University of Sri
Jayewardenepura is the 8th one that was initiated in 2022, and in that short
period too, it was awarded the Best IET On-Campus in that year.
                                                                                                 80

IEEE Student Branch

IEEE, founded in 1884, stands as the world's largest technical professional
society, born during a transformative era when electricity was reshaping
society. Visionaries like Alexander Graham Bell and Thomas Edison were early
contributors. In 1963, the merger of the American Institute of Electrical
Engineers (AIEE) and the Institute of Radio Engineers (IRE) gave rise to IEEE,
now connecting brilliant minds across diverse fields to advance science and
technology for humanity's benefit.

The IEEE Student Branch at the University of Sri Jayewardenepura, part of
IEEE Sri Lanka Section, was established in 2018 under the leadership of Mr.
Dulan Dias. It aims to advance technology and professionalism, offering
educational, technical, and professional advantages to its members. Notably,
in 2022, the branch earned the IEEE Regional Exemplary Student Branch
Award, led by current Chairperson Ms. Wasana Shalini and Branch Counselor
Prof. Lasith Gunawardena.

Dedicated to fostering connections, our branch hosts various events to
promote community and collaboration among members and with other
branches. From the Annual General Meeting (AGM) to celebrating IEEE Day,
our focus is on showcasing IEEE's importance, enticing new members, and
encouraging active involvement. JamborIEEE camps unite multiple SBs,
enhancing inter-branch connections, while initiatives like Road to Legacy
guide first-year IT undergraduates. J'Pura Expedition 2024 featured tech talks
by esteemed speakers, spanning AI to robotics, providing insights into
cutting-edge technologies.

With an exciting event lineup ahead, we remain committed to our mission of
fostering connections and creating memorable experiences. Join us on this
journey of learning, growth, and community-building within the IEEE Student
Branch.
                                                                                                  81

Department Societies/ Clubs

Civil Engineering Society

 The Civil Engineering Society (CES) is the main society within the Department
 of Civil Engineering that consists of the academic staff, undergraduate and
 postgraduate students. The society has been established with broader aims of
 promoting the civil engineering profession among students, enhancing the
 networking opportunities among the members and with the wider civil
 engineering community, promoting the professional development of students,
 and improving the student's life in the department. Apart, CES represents the
 department in inter-university, national, and international Level activities
 including IESL TECHNO exhibitions and design competitions. Intra university
 level spaghetti bridge competitions are organized by the CES annually. In
 addition, the society organizes guest lectures by inviting key personnel from
 the industry and research organizations. Apart from the activities related to the
 Civil Engineering field CES promote and encourage students to serve
 underprivileged sectors of the society.
                                                                                                 82

Computer Engineering Society

Computer Engineering Society (CENSOC) of the University of Sri
Jayewardenepura was established as the main society of the Department of
Computer Engineering. Membership of CENSOC is open to all undergraduate
and postgraduate students and academic/ academic support/ technical staff
attached to the Department of Computer Engineering. CENSOC aims to
establish interaction among members and to promote professional interest in
the field of Computer Engineering. The society explores and provides
opportunities to fulfill its societal responsibilities to the community. Further,
CENSOC will act as the social arm that identifies inherent capabilities of
students and promote their leadership skills and professionalism.
                                                                                                  83

E 2 CLUB

Electrical and Electronic Engineering Club (E 2 Club) of the University of Sri
Jayewardenepura is the prestigious social arm of the Department of Electrical
and Electronic Engineering. Membership of E 2 Club is open to all
undergraduate/postgraduate students and members of the
academic/academic support/technical staff attached to the Department of
Electrical and Electronic Engineering.
E 2 Club promotes professional interest in the area of Electrical and Electronic
Engineering and establishes closer interactions among members. The club
intend to inspire its members towards personal and societal developments as

                                                                                                                                                                                                 2

applicable to Electrical and Electronic Engineering. The activities of the E Club
include, but not limited to, organizing guest talks, presentations, field visits,
workshops, competitions, carrier fairs, fun activities and charity projects.
                                                                                                 84

IMechE - University of Sri Jayewardenepura Student Chapter

The Institution of Mechanical Engineers (IMechE) Student Chapter of the
University of Sri Jayewardenepura, established in December 2019, is dedicated
to promoting the significance of mechanical engineering through various
innovative initiatives. In addition to organizing sessions featuring keynote
speeches and engaging panel discussions to underscore the importance of the
field, the chapter actively fosters hands-on learning experiences.
Annually, the chapter participates to the Speak Out for Engineers (SOFE)
competition, providing a dynamic platform for students to showcase their
talents and innovative ideas. Moreover, recognizing the importance of practical
exposure, the chapter collaborates with industry experts to conduct
specialized sessions covering key areas of the engineering profession. These
sessions offer invaluable insights, practical skills, and networking opportunities,
enriching the academic journey of its members and preparing them for the
challenges of the professional world.
                                                                                                 85

Mechanical Engineering Members Society

The Mechanical Engineering Members Society (MEMS) at the University of Sri
Jayewardenepura (USJ) is dedicated to creating a collaborative community
within the Department of Mechanical Engineering. MEMS aims to exchange
experiences and knowledge among students, staff, and alumni, and enhance
industrial collaborations for career guidance. The society organizes
competitions, exhibitions, and events to showcase outstanding projects and
skills, and seeks affiliations with other universities and research institutes.
MEMS also contributes to professional development and research
advancement through workshops and seminars. The society is committed to
public outreach, uplifting the local community, and supporting department
initiatives. Recent endeavors, such as hosting the Stream-Xtream
computational fluid dynamics (CFD) competition at Techno 2023, demonstrate
MEMS' dedication to enriching the academic experience for its members.
                                                                                                 86

Nexus CLUB

The NEXUS Club of University of Sri Jayewardenepura was established in
October 2023, with the aim of fostering unity, promoting team building, and
nurturing leadership qualities among students.

It serves as a platform to enrich aesthetic appreciation by encouraging
engagement in various creative pursuits such as music, dancing, drama,
photography, and exploratory activities. Additionally, the club is dedicated to
enhancing language and communication skills, fostering personality
development, and facilitating interdisciplinary discussions related to
engineering. NEXUS Club is open to all students across the four departments,
and serves as a nexus, interconnecting individuals from diverse academic
backgrounds and providing a supportive environment for personal and
intellectual growth.

Join the Nexus Club in the journey of exploration, creativity, and collaboration
as we strive to cultivate well-rounded individuals equipped with the skills and
mindset to excel both academically and beyond.
                                                                                                   87

Career Guidance Unit

The Career Guidance Unit of the University of Sri Jayewardenepura offers
assistance to students in developing skills that would shape them to be
productive in the local and international industry.

Career Guidance Cell - Faculty of Engineering (CGC-FoE)

Career Guidance Cell (CGC-FoE) of Faculty of Engineering was established
under the purview of the Career Guidance Unit of the University of Sri
Jayewardenepura. The CGC-FoE aims to support undergraduates in acquiring
attributes and soft skills which can assist them in reaching standards matching
the potential employer's requirements. The cell comprises of academic career
advisors from each department and an experienced career guidance counselor
as a career advisor.

http://eng.sjp.ac.lk/career-guidance-center/

Career Guidance Society - Faculty of Engineering (CGC-FoE)-
Faculty of Engineering (CGC-FoE)

Career Guidance Society is the student club of the Career Guidance Cell of the
Faculty of Engineering. Students can join the society upon registration, where
they can get the exposure to various acitvities organized by the society, to
enhance their knowledge,, and skills and develop the career path, from the early
stages of the undargraduate studies. The society organizes several workshops,
seminars and welfare programmes, having these objectives in mind. Further, as
the main event of the society, a career fair, followed by a workshop series are
organized anually, to connect employers with the undergraduate students, to
facilitate with career opportunities.
                                                                                                  88

Sports and Recreation

Sports and recreational activities of the university are managed by the
Department of Physical Education. The Department of Physical Education
provides an opportunity for students to take part in different recreational and
sports activities and to develop personalities and qualities of teamwork
through such participation. The students may also enjoy a game of carom and
badminton within the faculty premises.

Medical Center & Counselling

The Engineering faculty medical center caters to the university community
including students, staff and their families free of charge as the first contact
and coordinate with Colombo South Teaching Hospital for secondary care. The
medical center provides facilities for students and staff during the daytime.
Other medical facilities such as, preventive health care (Dengue control
program), ambulance facilities, dental facilities, etc. are provided by the main
medical center of the University of Sri Jayewardenepura. The Counselling
Center of the Faculty of Engineering offers counselling services to the students
of the faculty to maintain their mental well-being.

http://eng.sjp.ac.lk/medical-center/
                                                                                                 89

Student Affairs and Welfare
Welfare

To obtain advice for student welfare activities such as hostels, canteens,
scholarships and bursaries, a welfare committee has been formed by the
Faculty Board under the approval of the Senate. The following member act as
Deputy Director of the student welfare committee of the faculty.
Dr. Shyam Kularathna shyamkularathna@sjp.ac.lk

Discipline

The following faculty member act as Deputy Proctor for student related
disciplinary matters.
Dr. Shyam Kularathna shyamkularathna@sjp.ac.lk
STUDENT LIFE
                                                                                                  91

Editorial Remarks

The Editorial Committee wishes to acknowledge that certain contents of the
Student Guide may contain reproductions of previous editions of the faculty
Student Guide.

Editorial Supervision

Dr. Nishan Dharmaweera, Dean, Faculty of Engineering

Chief Editor

Dr. Nilan Weerakoon

Editors

Mr. Uvindu Thilakarathne
Mr. Lakshan Madhushanka
Mrs. Kobika Thayananthan
Mrs. Sajini Wickramasinghe
Ms. Dhanushika Darshani

Layout Design

Ms. Uvindu Thilakarathne

Photographs

Japura Media
Dr. Akila Subasinghe
Prof. K.M.C Konthesingha
Dr. Chamitha de Alwis
Dr. Irindu Upasiri

This Student Guide is for informational purposes only.
The Faculty of Engineering reserves the right to amend this Student Guide
without prior notice. Authentic information relevant to the degree
program is available in the By-laws.
                                                                  92

Please read this student guide together with all relevant documents,
including but not limited to the following;

Student Handbook, University of Sri Jayewardenepura
(https://www.sjp.ac.lk/student-hand-book-2020-university-of-sri-
jayewardenepura/)

By-laws, Regulations and Rules as approved by the Council of the
University (University of Sri Jayewardenepura Regulations and Rules for
the award of Bachelor of Science of Engineering; By-laws for the award of
Academic Distinctions by the Faculty of Engineering. https://eng.sjp. ac.lk/).

 Faculty Awards
http://eng.sjp.ac.lk/gold-medal/

     Details of Departmental Awards:                     mechanical-
     http://eng.sjp.ac.lk/civileng/gold-medal/
     http://eng.sjp.ac.lk/computereng/gold-medal/
     http://eng.sjp.ac.lk/eeeng/gold-medal/
http://eng.sjp.ac.lk/mechanicaleng/news/gold-medal-for-
engineering/
   http://eng.sjp.ac.lk/interdisciplinary/gold-medal/
                                          93

CONTACT INFORMATION

Faculty Website                           Department of Civil Engineering
http://eng.sjp.ac.lk                      Tel: 011-3041603
                                          Email: head.ce@sjp.ac.lk
Faculty Office
Tel/Fax: 011-2731582                      Department of Computer Engineering
Email: foe@sjp.ac.lk                      Tel: 011-3041601
                                          Email: head.co@sjp.ac.lk
Student Welfare Division
University of Sri Jayewardenepura         Department of Electrical and Electronic
Tel: 011-2802010/011-2758270              Engineering
University Website http://www.sjp.ac.lk/  Tel: 011-3041602
                                          Email: head.ee@sjp.ac.lk
General Line
Tel: 011-2758000/ 011-2802696             Department of Mechanical
Email: info@sjp.ac.lk                     Engineering
                                          Tel: 011-3041604
Proctor (University of Sri                Email: head.me@sjp.ac.lk
Jayewardenepura)
Tel: 011-2758330                          Department of Interdisciplinary Studies
                                          Tel: 011-3041605
Deputy Proctors (Faculty of Engineering)  Email: head.is@sjp.ac.lk
Tel: 011-3041601

Main Library
Tel: 011-2758525/011-2758526

Library at the Faculty of Engineering
Tel: 011-3024654

Medical Officer
Tel: 011-2758602/011-2758500

Student Welfare Division
Faculty of Engineering
Tel: 011-3041603
    University of Sri Jayewardenepura

           Gangodawila, Nugegoda, Sri Lanka.

                  Congratulations

                           on being admitted to the
Faculty of Engineering, University of Sri Jayewardenepura.

        You have gained this rare opportunity as a result of
      your hard work and excellent academic performance.

                  We welcome you to the Faculty and
     wish you every success in achieving your career goal of

                     becoming a professional engineer.

 Tele: +94 11 2758000, +94 11 2802022, +94 11 2801024, +94 11 2801025
                                    Email: info@sjp.ac.lk
